Now You have read Problem solving approach . now its time to see some common patterns to solve problems 

some common patterns are.
1.Frequency Counter
2.Multiple Pointers
3.Sliding Window
4.Divide and Conquer
5.Dynamic Programming
6.Greedy Algorithms
7.Backtracking etc.

we will clear some of them here but in the near future i will make sure to add as much as i can 

now lets jump into frequency counter pattern in Frequencycounter.js

make sure you understand the Frequenycounter problem now jump into Anagram.js
(falls into the same Frequenycounter catagory)

2.time to jump into next catagory (Multiple Pointers)

go to MultiplePointers.js(introduction + one example)

second example ->now jump to the second example countUniqueValues.js

3.Sliding Window.
This pattern involves creating a window which can either be an array or number from one position to another.

Depending on a certain condition, the window either increases or closes (and a new window is created).

Very useful for keeping track of a subset of data in an array/string etc.

now go to the maxSubarray.js to have close look what that Sliding window problem means.



4.Divide and Conquer - This pattern involves dividing a data set into smaller chunks and then repeating a process with a subset of data.

This pattern can tremendously decrease time complexity

for ex-> Given a sorted array of integers, write a function called search, that accepts a value and returns the index where the value passed to the function is located. If the value is not found, return -1

go to search.js to see the actual solution.
search([1,2,3,4,5,6],4) // 3
search([1,2,3,4,5,6],6) // 5
search([1,2,3,4,5,6],11) // -1

Developing a problem solving approach is incredibly important
Thinking about code before writing code will always make you solve problems faster
Be mindful about problem solving patterns
Using frequency counters, multiple pointers, sliding window and divide and conquer will help you reduce time and space complexity and help solve more challenging problems.

