what is big-o?

Big O notation is a mathematical notation that describes the limiting behavior of a function when the argument tends towards a particular value or infinity. It is a member of a family of notations invented by Paul Bachmann, Edmund Landau, and others, collectively called Bachmann–Landau notation or asymptotic notation.

The above definition is taken right from the internet.

But my Short and precise definition is - its a notation use to define the worst case scenario of the program .that is the maximum time taken by the program to run is "this-big-O" only not more than that.

2.why we use big-O?
Imagine we have multiple implementations of the same function.
How can we determine which one is the "best?"

It's important to have a precise vocabulary to talk about how our code performs
Useful for discussing trade-offs between different approaches
When your code slows down or crashes, identifying parts of the code that are inefficient can help us find pain points in our applications

we use big-O in terms of -
Faster?

but we have some other factors too

Less memory-intensive?
More readable?

3.why can't we use timer function of inbuilt function to calculate the time taken by our program ? since its a data-structure in javascript.

ex->
function addUpTo(n) {
  let total = 0;
  for (let i = 1; i <= n; i++) {
    total += i;
  }
  return total;
}

let t1 = performance.now();
addUpTo(1000000000);
let t2 = performance.now();
console.log(`Time Elapsed: ${(t2 - t1) / 1000} seconds.`)

The Problem with Time.
Different machines will record different times
The same machine will record different times!
For fast algorithms, speed measurements may not be precise enough?

Big O Notation is a way to formalize fuzzy counting.
It allows us to talk formally about how the runtime of an algorithm grows as the inputs grow.

We say that an algorithm is O(f(n)) if the number of simple operations the computer has to do is eventually less than a constant times f(n), as n increases

f(n) could be linear (f(n) = n)
f(n) could be quadratic (f(n) = n  )
f(n) could be constant (f(n) = 1)
f(n) could be something entirely different!

in the folder see there are two files addUpTo(n) function 1 and 2 whiich gives us two big-O O(1) and O(n) respectively.

then see the countupandown function and play with it which gives O(n).
then see the nested loop version of printallpairs function which gives O(n^2).

Analyzing complexity with big O can get complicated
There are several rules of thumb that can help
These rules won't ALWAYS work, but are a helpful starting point

Arithmetic operations are constant
Variable assignment is constant
Accessing elements in an array (by index) or object (by key) is constant
In a loop, the the complexity is the length of the loop times the complexity of whatever happens inside of the loop.

now lets see the two unique functions logatleast5 and logatmost5 one gives O(n) and the other O(1).




